>> Scott Moss: Let's do it.
So I already have some stuff in here,
like the Schemas and things like that.
If you'd never used Zod,
it's pretty simple,
you're just describing the shape and
the requirements for it.
And now we are just going
to make our function.
So the first one we want to
make is going to be sign in.
Also I have this mock delay thing,
you can use it or not.
It just simulates the delay so
you can actually.
Otherwise the app's gonna move so
damn fast,
you're not gonna see loading states and
stuff like that on localhost.
So you can use it or not, put in whatever
time you want, it's just simulating stuff.
So let's make sign in.
So I'm gonna say, export const signin.
And for all my TypeScript people who
just cannot live without TypeScript,
because we're gonna use this
as an action on a form,
as a Server Action,
it's gonna always be passed the FormData.
This is a type that's
part of the HTML spec.
So we can use the FormData type, and
we're always gonna return a Promise,
which in this case I already have
a type called ActionResponse.
So I'm just gonna say, FormData here.
It's gonna be type FormData and
it's going to return
a Promise of ActionResponse.
There we go.
So the first thing we wanna do is we want
to get the data so we can abstract it.
We can do that by doing FormData.get.
This is because this is a map,
yeah, FormData is a map.
So we can use the get method on it
to get the methods that we want.
We haven't made the form yet,
but just assume for
now that this form has two fields,
one called email, one called password.
When we make the form, we'll ensure
that those are the names of the fields.
So we wanna get that, so let's do that.
So we can say, data = some object.
Email will be
formData.get('email') as string.
And then password would be
formData.get('password') as a string,
cool.
Now that we have that, what we
wanna do is we want to validate it.
There's a lot of ways to validate it
with Zod, I'm gonna do a safe parse.
This essentially won't
throw an error if it fails,
instead will return an object with
a success or an error property.
If I do a regular parse it'll
just throw an error if it fails.
So let's do a safe parse, and
if it's not successful,
then you can't sign in.
You didn't pass this form validation, so
something about your email
password stuff is messed up.
So in this case we'll say,
validationResult =,
I already have the SignInSchema.safeParse.
We're gonna pass in our data, and then we
can say, if (!validationResult.success).
We wanna go ahead and return that
ActionResponse that has error and
all that stuff, so
I'll say, success: false.
Actually, I'll just copy that,
make it faster.
So we'll do that...Why is this freaking
out... Object literal may only specify known properties,
and property 'success' does not exist.
It's right there, [LAUGH] it says success.
See, this is why I don't use TypeScript,
it's clearly wrong at this point.
Function lacks ending return statement and
return.
Cuz I haven't returned anything yet.
No, I don't know, TypeScript errors,
whatever, that's TypeScript.
>> Student: I think it's not liking
that the function is an async either.
>> Scott Moss: Maybe that's it.
That somehow fixed that,
[LAUGH] TypeScript.
[LAUGH] I don't know, man.
Well, I know it's freaking out now because
I don't have a return statement outside of
an if statement.
If I do this, it'll be happier,
it's like, well,
you might return something undefined.
That's why it's freaking out, but I
haven't gotten there yet, leave me alone,
stop screaming at me, cool, so.
And then the next thing is,
let's find the user by the email.
We haven't made this function, so
let's just assume that it's made,
but it's not implemented.
So let's assume that it's gonna work.
We'll have to go back and
make this function for it to be useful.
So we'll say, user = await getUserbyEmail,
and that will be already imported for you.
Up here you can see right now
it says it has no exported
member because we haven't made that yet,
so we'll go do that in a little bit.
So user by email.
And then if it's not a user,
then yeah, we just want to say, no,
tell the user that, hey,
that's an invalid email or password.
Don't tell them which one, you don't wanna
expose your logic, but you just say that.
And then from there, we wanna verify
the password from the password that they
passed in with the password that
exists on the user in the database.
So we can say isPassword, let's type
exactly what I had here, PasswordValid.
We can say await verifyPassword with
(data.password, and user.password).
And guess what?
Same thing, if it's not valid,
get out of here.
Pretty much the same thing we had, so
I'm just gonna copy and paste that.
And again, don't say,
your password is wrong,
cuz now they know that that email
exists in your database, yes.
>> Student: Why do we need to put the use
server at the top when all of these
are server components by default, right?
>> Scott Moss: So the question is,
why do we need to put use server at the
top if all these are server components?
So none of these are components,
these are all just functions,
that's one thing to recognize.
And then two,
if I don't put the use server here,
these are just regular functions.
They won't have access to the request,
Next.js won't make routes for
these, if I don't put that directive here.
They'll just be treated like a regular
file that I can import and use anywhere.
And if I try to,
if I don't do this and I try to import
this into a React component,
it's gonna break.
It's 100% gonna break because there's
a bunch of node specific stuff in
these libraries that
won't run on the browser.
This right here is literally telling
Next.js, hey, these functions
that I'm making, can you go make routes
for them and make sure that their
code is bundled with the server modules
and not with the client modules?
That is what this directive
is telling Next.js.
Without that,
you just have regular functions and
those functions will not
work in the browser.
There are other ways to use
the use the use server directive.
This has nothing to do with Next.js,
it's React.
So definitely recommend checking
out Brian Holt's course on it, but
you could on a function level do
a directive here at the top of a function.
But you typically would only do this
if you were making the function in
a component.
If you're making all the functions in
a separate file, just put them all here.
Just do it once and
everything here gets exported.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, any other questions?
>> Student: Are there any security
implications to be aware of, or
is everything pretty handled for
you by Next.js as far as security goes?
>> Scott Moss: There are some foot guns,
you could expose secret values because
technically none of your code from
this gets bundled in the client.
But if you use environment
variables in such a way,
you could expose them to the client.
I forgot the exact scenario in which that
can happen, cuz I think they mostly have
made it almost impossible for
you to do that now since Next.js 15.
But there used to be a case
where Server Actions
could leak sensitive environment
variables on a client.
But other than that,
I haven't come across anything.
And I mean, after we do this and
you can look at the network tab and
you can kind of see what's going on
underneath the hood to see what they're
sending and what they're not sending.
But no, it's essentially just
creating routes for you.
Password is not valid.
Cool, assuming we passed all that,
let's create a session and
let's tell the client that,
hey, you're good to go.
So await createSession for
the user.id, and then return
, oops.
With message: 'Signed in
successfully', cool.
So we got that.
So good practice to wrap all
this stuff in a try catch just
in case something happens.
You should always do that on anything
server side, so I'll just do that.
Try,
>> Scott Moss: Catch,
there we go.
And then, if there was an error,
then we'll just do this.
No, definitely wanna log that error, so
send it to your error
service if you have one.
>> Scott Moss: 'Something bad happened',
cool.
And what's this talking about?
Success message,
you gotta do a message too.
I'll do the same thing, cool.
Okay, so that's sign in.
Sign up is a little less work, but
mostly the same, so let's do that.
>> Scott Moss: Cool,
pretty much the same thing when it comes
to getting the data and validating.
So we can just copy that, it's gonna
be pretty much the same schema too.
I don't think I made a different schema,
I did.
Why did I make it?
Yeah, there's a confirmPassword,
that's right, forgot about that.
So let's get the confirmPassword:
from formData.get('confirmPassword'),
cool.
So look at that,
change this to sign up schema.
>> Scott Moss: If
(!validationResult.success) gonna
return success: false,.
>> Scott Moss: What did I put down here?
Make sure it's exactly the same.
'Validation failed', and
then errors would be,
yeah, those validation errors there.
So call
validationResults.error.flatten().filledE-
rrors, yeah, cool.
Next thing we wanna do is, okay, cool,
if that's all good, we want to attempt to.
Well, in this case it's checking to
see if the user's in the database.
But what you would typically do is,
on the database level is just make sure
you have a unique constraint on the email.
So the database would just store an error
so you don't have to check first,
that would be pretty redundant,
but just being explicit here.
So just check to make sure the user
is there, and then if it's not,
then we wanna kinda do the same thing, so.
>> Scott Moss: ExistingUser
= await getUserbyEmail().
This will be (data.email).
If there is an (existingUser),
return success: false,
message: 'You already have'.
I don't know what you would put here
to not spook somebody into giving away
that somebody already has an account.
You'd be like, 'Nah', [LAUGH] cuz
if I put this email already exists,
I'm like, I knew they had an account here.
So I don't know what you would put there.
>> Scott Moss: 'Stop trying to spoof me',
something like that, cool.
And then from there, then yeah,
you actually would create the user,
create the session success: true,
all that.
So let's try to create the user.
If the user doesn't get created for
some reason, we'll throw an error.
So user = await createUser
with the data.email and
then a data.password.
If (!user) for some reason,
you just return something like this.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, and
then from there we can await
the session with the (user.id) and
then return success: true,
message: 'Account created'.
There we go, and should have
did a try catch at the top, but
I'm just gonna do it now.
>> Scott Moss: Whoa, whoa, whoa.
>> Scott Moss: And there's an error.
This is log it and
return success: false,
message: 'something bad happened'.
And there we go, should be good, cool.
Any questions on those?
>> Scott Moss: Okay, sign out is pretty
simple, you just delete the session.
So let's just make that right quick.
>> Scott Moss: You just
say await deleteSession().
>> Scott Moss: There we go, and then if
you couldn't, then yeah, throw the error.
Yeah, I guess in this
case if you couldn't,
you probably just wanna throw the error.
So I guess I'm just catching it to
log it and report it to sentry or
something, I'm so used to using sentry.
>> Scott Moss: There we go, and
then, whatever, regardless, error or
not, this finally what we're gonna do is
try to redirect, or I guess in this case.
Yeah, I guess if you sign out, no matter
what, we always wanna redirect you.
So we can use this redirect
method from Next.js and
we can say redirect them to sign in
after they sign out, error or not.
>> Student: Quick question,
that redirect is essentially running
on a function on the server, right?
>> Scott Moss: Mm-hm.
>> Student: So let's say, Next.js
does the redirect on the client side?
Because the server is just indicating it
to the client side that it needs to do
a redirect, or
how that redirect actually work?
>> Scott Moss: Great question.
Yeah, question is, how does this redirect
happening if it's running on the server?
Is Next.js telling a client?
Nope, it's so much simpler than that.
It's the same way you would do a redirect
on any server you've ever done.
It's literally redirecting the request
with either a status code 303, whatever
300 status code you wanna redirect it
to permanent, temporary, whatever.
It's literally doing that cuz
it is essentially a request.
They just do such a good job with
the SDK of this that it doesn't feel
like you're in a request.
But this is a route handler, essentially,
it just doesn't feel like it.
It's just like it's using
a regular function, but
you have access to the full request,
including redirecting,
cookies, headers, everything, yeah.
Only if it's a use server.
If you don't have that,
it's just a regular function and
it will throw an error
if you try to redirect.
You're not even in a request,
or you try to use cookies,
you don't have access to the request.
So this means make these API routes.
Whenever you see this,
I want you to think make these API routes,
that's how I think about it.
Obviously, we're not using this right now,
and a lot of stuff that we're using hasn't
even been implemented, so
it's just not gonna work.
So what we're gonna have to do next
is implement the client side of this.
So the forms that actually call this,
right?
And then we'll have to implement
these things like getUserbyEmail and,
where's the other one?
Is that the only one I had?
GetUserbyEmail, this stuff's already done.
So yeah, I think it's just
getUserbyEmail that we have to make.